Exclusions
Act does not apply to certain materials
69 (1) This Act does not apply to
(a) library or museum material preserved solely for
public reference or exhibition purposes; or
(b) material placed in the Library and Archives of
Canada, the National Gallery of Canada, the Canadian
Museum of History, the Canadian Museum of Nature,
the National Museum of Science and Technology, the
Canadian Museum for Human Rights or the Canadian
Museum of Immigration at Pier 21 by or on behalf of
persons or organizations other than government institutions.
Sections 7 and 8 do not apply to certain information
(2) Sections 7 and 8 do not apply to personal information
that is publicly available.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 69; R.S., 1985, c. 1 (3rd Supp.), s. 12; 1990, c. 3, s. 32; 1992, c. 1, s.
143(E); 2004, c. 11, s. 39; 2008, c. 9, s. 10; 2010, c. 7, s. 9; 2013, c. 38, s. 18.
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
This Act does not apply to personal information
69.1
that the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation collects, uses or discloses for journalistic, artistic or literary purposes and does not collect, use or disclose for any other purpose.
2006, c. 9, s. 188.
Confidences of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada
This Act does not apply to confidences of the
70 (1)
Queen’s Privy Council for Canada, including, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, any information
contained in
(a) memoranda the purpose of which is to present
proposals or recommendations to Council;
Current to December 10, 2025 43
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Exclusions
Sections 70-70.1
(b) discussion papers the purpose of which is to
present background explanations, analyses of problems or policy options to Council for consideration by
Council in making decisions;
(c) agenda of Council or records recording deliberations or decisions of Council;
(d) records used for or reflecting communications or
discussions between ministers of the Crown on matters relating to the making of government decisions or
the formulation of government policy;
records the purpose of which is to brief ministers
(e)
of the Crown in relation to matters that are before, or
are proposed to be brought before, Council or that are
the subject of communications or discussions referred
to in paragraph (d); and
(f) draft legislation.
Definition of Council
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), Council means
the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada, committees of the
Queen’s Privy Council for Canada, Cabinet and committees of Cabinet.
Exception
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to
confidences of the Queen’s Privy Council for
(a)
Canada that have been in existence for more than
twenty years; or
(b) discussion papers described in paragraph (1)(b)
if the decisions to which the discussion papers
(i)
relate have been made public, or
where the decisions have not been made public,
(ii)
if four years have passed since the decisions were
made.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 70; 1992, c. 1, s. 144(F).
Certificate under Canada Evidence Act
If a certificate under section 38.13 or 38.41 of
70.1 (1)
the Canada Evidence Act prohibiting the disclosure of
personal information of a specific individual is issued before a complaint is filed by that individual under this Act
in respect of a request for access to that information, the
provisions of this Act respecting that individual’s right of
access to their personal information do not apply to the
information that is subject to the certificate.
Current to December 10, 2025 44
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Exclusions
Sections 70.1-71
Certificate following filing of complaint
Despite any other provision of this Act, if a certificate
(2)
under section 38.13 or 38.41 of the Canada Evidence Act
prohibiting the disclosure of personal information of a
specific individual is issued in respect of personal information after the filing of a complaint under this Act in relation to a request for access to that information,
(a) all proceedings under this Act in respect of that information, including an investigation, audit, appeal or
judicial review, are discontinued;
(b) the Privacy Commissioner shall not disclose the
information and shall take all necessary precautions to
prevent its disclosure; and
(c) the Privacy Commissioner shall, within 10 days after the certificate is published in the Canada Gazette,
return the information to the head of the government
institution that controls the information.
Information not to be disclosed
The Privacy Commissioner and every person acting
(3)
on behalf or under the direction of the Privacy Commissioner, in carrying out their functions under this Act,
shall not disclose information subject to a certificate issued under section 38.13 or 38.41 of the Canada Evidence
Act and shall take every reasonable precaution to avoid
the disclosure of that information.
Limited power of delegation
(4) The Privacy Commissioner may not, nor may an Assistant Privacy Commissioner, delegate the investigation
of any complaint respecting information subject to a certificate issued under section 38.13 or 38.41 of the Canada
Evidence Act except to one of a maximum of four officers
or employees of the Commissioner specifically designated by the Commissioner for the purpose of conducting
that investigation.
2001, c. 41, s. 104; 2024, c. 16, s. 92.
General
Duties and functions of designated Minister
71 (1) Subject to subsection (2), the designated Minister
shall
(a) cause to be kept under review the manner in which
personal information banks are maintained and managed to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
Current to December 10, 2025 45
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
General
Section 71
Act and the regulations relating to access by individuals to personal information contained therein;
(b) assign or cause to be assigned a registration number to each personal information bank;
(c) prescribe such forms as may be required for the
operation of this Act and the regulations;
(d) cause to be prepared and distributed to government institutions directives and guidelines concerning
the operation of this Act and the regulations; and
(e) prescribe the form of, and what information is to
be included in, reports made to Parliament under section 72.
Exception for Bank of Canada
Anything that is required to be done by the designat-
(2)
ed Minister under paragraph (1)(a) or (d) shall be done
in respect of the Bank of Canada by the Governor of the
Bank of Canada.
Review of existing and proposed personal information
banks
(3) Subject to subsection (5), the designated Minister
shall cause to be kept under review the utilization of existing personal information banks and proposals for the
creation of new banks, and shall make such recommendations as he considers appropriate to the heads of the
appropriate government institutions with regard to personal information banks that, in the opinion of the designated Minister, are under-utilized or the existence of
which can be terminated.
Establishment and modification of personal
information banks
(4) Subject to subsection (5), no new personal information bank shall be established and no existing personal
information banks shall be substantially modified without approval of the designated Minister or otherwise
than in accordance with any term or condition on which
such approval is given.
Application of subsections (3) and (4)
(5) Subsections (3) and (4) apply only in respect of personal information banks under the control of government institutions that are departments as defined in section 2 of the Financial Administration Act.
Current to December 10, 2025 46
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
General
Sections 71-73
Delegation to head of government institution
The designated Minister may authorize the head of a
(6)
government institution to exercise and perform, in such
manner and subject to such terms and conditions as the
designated Minister directs, any of the powers, functions
and duties of the designated Minister under subsection
(3) or (4).
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “71”.
Designated Minister’s power
71.1 The designated Minister may provide services with
respect to the administration of this Act to the public and
to any government institution.
2019, c. 18, s. 54.
Annual report — government institutions
72 (1) Every year the head of every government institution shall prepare a report on the administration of this
Act within the institution during the period beginning on
April 1 of the preceding year and ending on March 31 of
the current year.
Tabling of report
Every report prepared under subsection (1) shall be
(2)
laid before each House of Parliament on any of the first
15 days on which that House is sitting after September 1
of the year in which the report is prepared.
Reference to Parliamentary committee
(3) Every report prepared under subsection (1) shall, after it is laid before the Senate and the House of Commons, under subsection (2), be referred to the committee
designated or established by Parliament for the purpose
of subsection 75(1).
Copy of report to designated Minister
(4) The head of every government institution shall provide a copy of the report to the designated Minister immediately after it is laid before both Houses.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 72; 2019, c. 18, s. 55.
Delegation by head of government institution
The head of a government institution may, by or-
73 (1)
der, delegate any of their powers, duties or functions under this Act to one or more officers or employees of that
institution.
Current to December 10, 2025 47
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
General
Sections 73-73.1
Delegation to officers or employees of other
government institution
(2) The head of a government institution may, for the
purposes of subsection 73.1(1), by order, delegate any of
their powers, duties or functions under this Act to one or
more officers or employees of another government institution.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 73; 2019, c. 18, s. 56.
Provision of services related to privacy
73.1 (1) A government institution may provide services
related to any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on the head of a government institution under this
Act to another government institution that is presided
over by the same Minister or that is under the responsibility of the same Minister and may receive such services
from any other such government institution.
Written agreement
(2) A government institution may provide services under
subsection (1) to another government institution only if it
enters into an agreement in writing with the other government institution in respect of those services before it
provides the services.
Notice
(3) The head of a government institution that receives
the services shall provide a copy of the agreement to the
Privacy Commissioner and the designated Minister as
soon as possible after the agreement is entered into. The
head of the institution shall also notify the Commissioner
and the designated Minister of any material change to
that agreement.
Fees
(4) The head of a government institution that provides
the services may charge a fee for those services. The fee is
not to exceed the cost of providing the service.
Spending authority
(5) The head of the institution that charges the fee may
spend the revenues that are received from the provision
of the services for any purpose of that institution. If the
head of the institution spends the revenues, he or she
must do so in the fiscal year in which they are received
or, unless an appropriation Act provides otherwise, in the
next fiscal year.
2019, c. 18, s. 56.
Current to December 10, 2025 48
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
General
Sections 73.2-77
Personal information not under control of institution
73.2 The personal information that the head of a government institution provides to the head of another government institution for the purpose of the other institution providing the services referred to in subsection
73.1(1) is not under the control of that other institution.
2019, c. 18, s. 56.
Protection from civil proceeding or from prosecution
74 Notwithstanding any other Act of Parliament, no civil
or criminal proceedings lie against the head of any government institution, or against any person acting on behalf or under the direction of the head of a government
institution, and no proceedings lie against the Crown or
any government institution, for the disclosure in good
faith of any personal information pursuant to this Act, for
any consequences that flow from that disclosure, or for
the failure to give any notice required under this Act if
reasonable care is taken to give the required notice.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “74”.
Permanent review of this Act by Parliamentary
committee
75 (1) The administration of this Act shall be reviewed
on a permanent basis by such committee of the House of
Commons, of the Senate or of both Houses of Parliament
as may be designated or established by Parliament for
that purpose.
Review and report to Parliament
(2) The committee designated or established by Parliament for the purpose of subsection (1) shall, not later
than July 1, 1986, undertake a comprehensive review of
the provisions and operation of this Act, and shall, within
a year after the review is undertaken or within such further time as the House of Commons may authorize, submit a report to Parliament thereon including a statement
of any changes the committee would recommend.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “75”.
Binding on Crown
76 This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of
Canada.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “76”.
Regulations
The Governor in Council may make regulations
77 (1)
Current to December 10, 2025 49
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
General
Section 77
(a) specifying government institutions or parts of government institutions for the purpose of paragraph (e)
of the definition personal information in section 3;
(b) prescribing the period of time for which any class
of personal information is to be retained under subsection 6(1);
(c) prescribing the circumstances and the manner in
which personal information under the control of a
government institution is to be disposed of under subsection 6(3);
(d) specifying investigative bodies for the purposes of
paragraph 8(2)(e) and sections 22 and 23;
(e) prescribing the circumstances in which and the
conditions under which personal information may be
disclosed under subsection 8(3);
(f) prescribing the period of time for which copies of
requests received under paragraph 8(2)(e) and records
of information disclosed pursuant to the requests are
to be retained under subsection 8(4);
specifying persons or bodies for the purpose of
(g)
paragraph 8(2)(h);
prescribing procedures to be followed in making
(h)
and responding to a request for access to personal information under paragraph 12(1)(a) or (b);
(i) prescribing procedures to be followed by an individual or a government institution where the individual requests under subsection 12(2) a correction of personal information or a notation of a correction
requested, including the period of time within which
the correction or notation must be made;
(j) prescribing any fees, or the manner of calculating
any fees, to be paid for being given access to personal
information requested under subsection 12(1) or for
the making of copies of such personal information;
prescribing the procedures to be followed by the
(k)
Privacy Commissioner and any person acting on behalf or under the direction of the Privacy Commissioner in examining or obtaining copies of records relevant
to an investigation of a complaint in respect of a refusal to disclose personal information under paragraph 19(1)(a) or (b) or section 21;
(l) specifying classes of investigations for the purpose
of paragraph 22(3)(c);
(m) prescribing the class of individuals who may act
on behalf of minors, incompetents, deceased persons
Current to December 10, 2025 50
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
General
Section 77
or any other individuals under this Act and regulating
the manner in which any rights or actions of individuals under this Act may be exercised or performed on
their behalf;
(n) authorizing the disclosure of information relating
to the physical or mental health of individuals to duly
qualified medical practitioners or psychologists in order to determine whether disclosure of the information would be contrary to the best interests of the individuals, and prescribing any procedures to be followed
or restrictions deemed necessary with regard to the
disclosure and examination of the information; and
(o) prescribing special procedures for giving individuals access under subsection 12(1) to personal information relating to their physical or mental health and
regulating the way in which that access is given.
Amendments to schedule
(2) The Governor in Council may, by order,
(a) add to the schedule the name of any department,
ministry of state, body or office of the Government of
Canada;
(b) replace in the schedule the former name of any department, ministry of state, body or office of the Government of Canada with its new name; and
(c) delete from the schedule the name of any department, ministry of state, body or office of the Government of Canada that has ceased to exist or has become
part of another department, ministry of state, body or
office of the Government of Canada.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 77; 2019, c. 18, s. 57.
Current to December 10, 2025 51
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
