Review of Exempt Banks
Section 36
Review of Exempt Banks
Investigation of exempt banks
The Privacy Commissioner may, from time to
36 (1)
time at the discretion of the Commissioner, carry out investigations of the files contained in personal information banks designated as exempt banks under section 18.
Sections 31 to 34 apply
(2) Sections 31 to 34 apply, where appropriate and with
such modifications as the circumstances require, in respect of investigations carried out under subsection (1).
Report of findings and recommendations
(3) If, following an investigation under subsection (1),
the Privacy Commissioner considers that any file contained in a personal information bank should not be contained therein within the terms of the order designating
the bank as an exempt bank, the Commissioner shall provide the head of the government institution that has control of the bank with a report containing
the findings of the Commissioner and any recom-
(a)
mendations that the Commissioner considers appropriate; and
(b) where appropriate, a request that, within a time
specified therein, notice be given to the Commissioner
of any action taken or proposed to be taken to implement the recommendations or reasons why no such
action has been or is proposed to be taken.
Reports to be included in annual or special reports to
Parliament
(4) Any report made by the Privacy Commissioner under
subsection (3), together with any notice given to the
Commissioner in response thereto, may be included in a
report made pursuant to section 38 or 39.
Review of exempt banks by Court
(5) Where the Privacy Commissioner requests a notice
under paragraph (3)(b) in respect of any file contained in
a personal information bank designated under section 18
as an exempt bank and no notice is received within the
time specified therefor or the action described in the notice is, in the opinion of the Commissioner, inadequate or
inappropriate or will not be taken in a reasonable time,
the Privacy Commissioner may make an application to
the Court under section 43.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “36”.
Current to December 10, 2025 29
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Review of Compliance with Sections 4 to 8
Sections 37-38
Review of Compliance with
Sections 4 to 8
Investigation in respect of sections 4 to 8
The Privacy Commissioner may, from time to
37 (1)
time at the discretion of the Commissioner, carry out investigations in respect of personal information under the
control of government institutions to ensure compliance
with sections 4 to 8.
Sections 31 to 34 apply
(2) Sections 31 to 34 apply, where appropriate and with
such modifications as the circumstances require, in respect of investigations carried out under subsection (1).
Report of findings and recommendations
If, following an investigation under subsection (1),
(3)
the Privacy Commissioner considers that a government
institution has not complied with sections 4 to 8, the
Commissioner shall provide the head of the institution
with a report containing the findings of the investigation
and any recommendations that the Commissioner considers appropriate.
Reports to be included in annual or special reports
(4) Any report made by the Privacy Commissioner under
subsection (3) may be included in a report made pursuant to section 38 or 39.
Coordination with Review Agency
The Privacy Commissioner may coordinate his or her
(5)
activities under subsection (1) with those of the National
Security and Intelligence Review Agency under any of
paragraphs 8(1)(a) to (c) of the National Security and Intelligence Review Agency Act to avoid any unnecessary
duplication of work.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 37; 2019, c. 13, s. 37.1.
