Privacy Commissioner
Appointment
53 (1) The Governor in Council shall, by commission
under the Great Seal, appoint a Privacy Commissioner after consultation with the Leader of the Government in
the Senate or Government Representative in the Senate,
the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, the Leader or
Facilitator of every other recognized party or parliamentary group in the Senate and the leader of every recognized party in the House of Commons and approval of
the appointment by resolution of the Senate and House
of Commons.
Tenure
(2) Subject to this section, the Privacy Commissioner
holds office during good behaviour for a term of seven
years, but may be removed for cause by the Governor in
Council at any time on address of the Senate and House
of Commons.
Further terms
(3) The Privacy Commissioner, on the expiration of a
first or any subsequent term of office, is eligible to be reappointed for a further term not exceeding seven years.
Interim appointment
In the event of the absence or incapacity of the Priva-
(4)
cy Commissioner, or if that office is vacant, the Governor
Current to December 10, 2025 35
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Office of the Privacy Commissioner
Privacy Commissioner
Sections 53-55
in Council may appoint any qualified person to hold that
office in the interim for a term not exceeding six months,
and that person shall, while holding office, be paid the
salary or other remuneration and expenses that may be
fixed by the Governor in Council.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 53; 2006, c. 9, s. 118; 2022, c. 10, s. 247.
Rank, powers and duties generally
54 (1) The Privacy Commissioner shall rank as and have
all the powers of a deputy head of a department, shall engage exclusively in the duties of the office of Privacy
Commissioner under this Act or any other Act of Parliament and shall not hold any other office under Her
Majesty for reward or engage in any other employment
for reward.
Salary and expenses
The Privacy Commissioner shall be paid a salary
(2)
equal to the salary of a judge of the Federal Court, other
than the Chief Justice, and is entitled to be paid reasonable travel and living expenses incurred in the performance of duties under this Act or any other Act of Parliament.
Pension benefits
(3) The provisions of the Public Service Superannuation
Act, other than those relating to tenure of office, apply to
the Privacy Commissioner, except that a person appointed as Privacy Commissioner from outside the public service, as defined in the Public Service Superannuation
Act, may, by notice in writing given to the President of
the Treasury Board not more than sixty days after the
date of appointment, elect to participate in the pension
plan provided in the Diplomatic Service (Special) Superannuation Act, in which case the provisions of that Act,
other than those relating to tenure of office, apply to the
Privacy Commissioner from the date of appointment and
the provisions of the Public Service Superannuation Act
do not apply.
Other benefits
(4) The Privacy Commissioner is deemed to be employed
in the public service of Canada for the purposes of the
Government Employees Compensation Act and any regulations made under section 9 of the Aeronautics Act.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 54; 2002, c. 8, s. 160; 2003, c. 22, s. 225(E).
Information Commissioner may be appointed as
Privacy Commissioner
55 (1) The Governor in Council may appoint as Privacy
Commissioner under section 53 the Information Commissioner appointed under the Access to Information
Act.
Current to December 10, 2025 36
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Office of the Privacy Commissioner
Privacy Commissioner
Sections 55-57
Salary
In the event that the Information Commissioner is
(2)
appointed in accordance with subsection (1) as Privacy
Commissioner, the Privacy Commissioner shall, notwithstanding subsection 54(2), be paid the salary of the Information Commissioner but not the salary of the Privacy
Commissioner.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “55”.
