Designation
Power to designate Minister
3.1 (1) The Governor in Council may designate a member of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada to be the
Minister for the purposes of any provision of this Act.
Current to December 10, 2025 4
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Designation
Sections 3.1-6
Power to designate head
The Governor in Council may, by order, designate a
(2)
person to be the head of a government institution, other
than a department or ministry of state, for the purposes
of this Act.
2006, c. 9, s. 182.
Collection, Retention and
Disposal of Personal
Information
Collection of personal information
No personal information shall be collected by a gov-
4
ernment institution unless it relates directly to an operating program or activity of the institution.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “4”.
Personal information to be collected directly
A government institution shall, wherever possible,
5 (1)
collect personal information that is intended to be used
for an administrative purpose directly from the individual to whom it relates except where the individual authorizes otherwise or where personal information may be
disclosed to the institution under subsection 8(2).
Individual to be informed of purpose
A government institution shall inform any individual
(2)
from whom the institution collects personal information
about the individual of the purpose for which the information is being collected.
Exception
Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply where compli-
(3)
ance therewith might
(a) result in the collection of inaccurate information;
or
(b) defeat the purpose or prejudice the use for which
information is collected.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “5”.
Retention of personal information used for an
administrative purpose
Personal information that has been used by a gov-
6 (1)
ernment institution for an administrative purpose shall
be retained by the institution for such period of time after it is so used as may be prescribed by regulation in order to ensure that the individual to whom it relates has a
reasonable opportunity to obtain access to the information.
Current to December 10, 2025 5
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Collection, Retention and Disposal of Personal Information
Sections 6-8
Accuracy of personal information
A government institution shall take all reasonable
(2)
steps to ensure that personal information that is used for
an administrative purpose by the institution is as accurate, up-to-date and complete as possible.
Disposal of personal information
(3) A government institution shall dispose of personal
information under the control of the institution in accordance with the regulations and in accordance with any
directives or guidelines issued by the designated minister
in relation to the disposal of that information.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “6”.
Protection of Personal
Information
Use of personal information
7 Personal information under the control of a government institution shall not, without the consent of the individual to whom it relates, be used by the institution except
(a) for the purpose for which the information was obtained or compiled by the institution or for a use consistent with that purpose; or
(b) for a purpose for which the information may be
disclosed to the institution under subsection 8(2).
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “7”.
Disclosure of personal information
8 (1) Personal information under the control of a government institution shall not, without the consent of the
individual to whom it relates, be disclosed by the institution except in accordance with this section.
Where personal information may be disclosed
(2) Subject to any other Act of Parliament, personal information under the control of a government institution
may be disclosed
(a) for the purpose for which the information was obtained or compiled by the institution or for a use consistent with that purpose;
(b) for any purpose in accordance with any Act of Parliament or any regulation made thereunder that authorizes its disclosure;
(c) for the purpose of complying with a subpoena or
warrant issued or order made by a court, person or
body with jurisdiction to compel the production of
Current to December 10, 2025 6
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Protection of Personal Information
Section 8
information or for the purpose of complying with rules
of court relating to the production of information;
(d) to the Attorney General of Canada for use in legal
proceedings involving the Crown in right of Canada or
the Government of Canada;
(e) to an investigative body specified in the regulations, on the written request of the body, for the purpose of enforcing any law of Canada or a province or
carrying out a lawful investigation, if the request specifies the purpose and describes the information to be
disclosed;
(f) for the purpose of administering or enforcing any
law or carrying out a lawful investigation, under an
agreement or arrangement between the Government
of Canada or any of its institutions and any of the following entities or any of their institutions:
(i) the government of a foreign state,
(ii) an international organization of states or an international organization established by the governments of states,
(iii) the government of a province,
(iv) the council of the Westbank First Nation,
the council of a participating First Nation as
(v)
defined in subsection 2(1) of the First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act,
the council of a participating First Nation as
(vi)
defined in section 2 of the Anishinabek Nation Education Agreement Act,
a First Nation Government or the Anishin-
(vii)
abek Nation Government, as defined in section 2
of the Anishinabek Nation Governance Agreement
Act, or an Anishinaabe Institution, within the
meaning of section 1.1 of the Agreement, as defined in section 2 of that Act,
(vii.1) the Whitecap Dakota Government, as defined in section 2 of the Self-Government Treaty
Recognizing the Whitecap Dakota Nation / Wapaha Ska Dakota Oyate Act;
(g) to a member of Parliament for the purpose of assisting the individual to whom the information relates
in resolving a problem;
(h) to officers or employees of the institution for internal audit purposes, or to the office of the Comptroller
Current to December 10, 2025 7
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Protection of Personal Information
Section 8
General or any other person or body specified in the
regulations for audit purposes;
(i) to the Library and Archives of Canada for archival
purposes;
(j) to any person or body for research or statistical
purposes if the head of the government institution
(i) is satisfied that the purpose for which the information is disclosed cannot reasonably be accomplished unless the information is provided in a form
that would identify the individual to whom it relates, and
(ii) obtains from the person or body a written undertaking that no subsequent disclosure of the information will be made in a form that could reasonably be expected to identify the individual to whom
it relates;
(k) to any aboriginal government, association of aboriginal people, Indian band, government institution or
part thereof, or to any person acting on behalf of such
government, association, band, institution or part
thereof, for the purpose of researching or validating
the claims, disputes or grievances of any of the aboriginal peoples of Canada;
to any government institution for the purpose of
(l)
locating an individual in order to collect a debt owing
to Her Majesty in right of Canada by that individual or
make a payment owing to that individual by Her
Majesty in right of Canada; and
(m) for any purpose where, in the opinion of the head
of the institution,
(i) the public interest in disclosure clearly outweighs any invasion of privacy that could result
from the disclosure, or
(ii) disclosure would clearly benefit the individual
to whom the information relates.
Personal information disclosed by Library and
Archives of Canada
Subject to any other Act of Parliament, personal in-
(3)
formation under the custody or control of the Library
and Archives of Canada that has been transferred there
by a government institution for historical or archival
Current to December 10, 2025 8
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Protection of Personal Information
Section 8
purposes may be disclosed in accordance with the regulations to any person or body for research or statistical
purposes.
Copies of requests under paragraph (2)(e) to be
retained
(4) The head of a government institution shall retain a
copy of every request received by the government institution under paragraph (2)(e) for such period of time as
may be prescribed by regulation, shall keep a record of
any information disclosed pursuant to the request for
such period of time as may be prescribed by regulation
and shall, on the request of the Privacy Commissioner,
make those copies and records available to the Privacy
Commissioner.
Notice of disclosure under paragraph (2)(m)
(5) The head of a government institution shall notify the
Privacy Commissioner in writing of any disclosure of personal information under paragraph (2)(m) prior to the
disclosure where reasonably practicable or in any other
case forthwith on the disclosure, and the Privacy Commissioner may, if the Commissioner deems it appropriate, notify the individual to whom the information relates
of the disclosure.
Definition of Indian band
(6) In paragraph (2)(k), Indian band means
(a) a band, as defined in the Indian Act;
the band, as defined in subsection 2(1) of the
(b)
Naskapi and the Cree-Naskapi Commission Act;
the Nation, as defined in subsection 2(1)
(c) shíshálh
of the shíshálh Nation Self-Government Act; or
(d) a first nation named in Schedule II to the Yukon
First Nations Self-Government Act.
Definition of aboriginal government
(7) The expression aboriginal government in paragraph (2)(k) means
(a) Nisga’a Government, as defined in the Nisga’a Final Agreement given effect by the Nisga’a Final
Agreement Act;
(b) the council of the Westbank First Nation;
(c) the Tlicho Government, as defined in section 2 of
the Tlicho Land Claims and Self-Government Act;
Current to December 10, 2025 9
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Protection of Personal Information
Section 8
(d) the Nunatsiavut Government, as defined in section
2 of the Labrador Inuit Land Claims Agreement Act;
(e) the council of a participating First Nation as defined in subsection 2(1) of the First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act;
(e.1) the Tla’amin Government, as defined in subsection 2(2) of the Tla’amin Final Agreement Act;
(f) the Tsawwassen Government, as defined in subsection 2(2) of the Tsawwassen First Nation Final
Agreement Act;
(f.1) the Cree Nation Government, as defined in
subsection 2(1) of the Cree Nation of Eeyou Istchee
Governance Agreement Act or a Cree First Nation, as
defined in subsection 2(2) of that Act;
(g) a Maanulth Government, within the meaning of
subsection 2(2) of the Maanulth First Nations Final
Agreement Act;
(h) Sioux Valley Dakota Oyate Government, within
the meaning of subsection 2(2) of the Sioux Valley
Dakota Nation Governance Act;
(h.1) the Whitecap Dakota Government, as defined
in section 2 of the Self-Government Treaty Recognizing the Whitecap Dakota Nation / Wapaha Ska
Dakota Oyate Act;
the council of a as de-
(i) participating First Nation
fined in section 2 of the Anishinabek Nation Education Agreement Act; or
a or the
(j) First Nation Government Anishinabek
2
Nation Government, as defined in section of the
Anishinabek Nation Governance Agreement Act, or
an Anishinaabe Institution, within the meaning of section 1.1 of the Agreement, as defined in section 2 of
that Act.
Definition of council of the Westbank First Nation
The expression
(8) council of the Westbank First Nain paragraphs (2)(f) and (7)(b) means the council, as
tion
Current to December 10, 2025 10
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Protection of Personal Information
Sections 8-9
defined in the Westbank First Nation Self-Government
Agreement given effect by the Westbank First Nation
Self-Government Act.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 8; R.S., 1985, c. 20 (2nd Supp.), s. 13, c. 1 (3rd Supp.), s. 12; 1994,
c. 35, s. 39; 2000, c. 7, s. 26; 2004, c. 11, s. 37, c. 17, s. 18; 2005, c. 1, ss. 106, 109, c. 27,
ss. 21, 25; 2006, c. 10, s. 33; 2008, c. 32, s. 30; 2009, c. 18, s. 23; 2014, c. 1, s. 19, c. 11, s.
24; 2017, c. 32, s. 18; 2018, c. 4, s. 132; 2022, c. 9, s. 4; 2022, c. 9, s. 45; 2023, c. 22, s. 20.
Record of disclosures to be retained
9 (1) The head of a government institution shall retain a
record of any use by the institution of personal information contained in a personal information bank or any use
or purpose for which that information is disclosed by the
institution where the use or purpose is not included in
the statements of uses and purposes set forth pursuant to
subparagraph 11(1)(a)(iv) and subsection 11(2) in the index referred to in section 11, and shall attach the record
to the personal information.
Limitation
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of information disclosed pursuant to paragraph 8(2)(e).
Record forms part of personal information
(3) For the purposes of this Act, a record retained under
subsection (1) shall be deemed to form part of the personal information to which it is attached.
Consistent uses
Where personal information in a personal informa-
(4)
tion bank under the control of a government institution
is used or disclosed for a use consistent with the purpose
for which the information was obtained or compiled by
the institution but the use is not included in the statement of consistent uses set forth pursuant to subparagraph 11(1)(a)(iv) in the index referred to in section 11,
the head of the government institution shall
forthwith notify the Privacy Commissioner of the
(a)
use for which the information was used or disclosed;
and
ensure that the use is included in the next state-
(b)
ment of consistent uses set forth in the index.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “9”; 1984, c. 21, s. 89.
Current to December 10, 2025 11
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Personal Information Banks
Sections 10-11
Personal Information Banks
Personal information to be included in personal
information banks
10 (1) The head of a government institution shall cause
to be included in personal information banks all personal
information under the control of the government institution that
(a) has been used, is being used or is available for use
for an administrative purpose; or
(b) is organized or intended to be retrieved by the
name of an individual or by an identifying number,
symbol or other particular assigned to an individual.
Exception for Library and Archives of Canada
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of personal
information under the custody or control of the Library
and Archives of Canada that has been transferred there
by a government institution for historical or archival purposes.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 10; R.S., 1985, c. 1 (3rd Supp.), s. 12; 2004, c. 11, s. 38.
Personal Information Index
Index of personal information
The designated Minister shall cause to be pub-
11 (1)
lished on a periodic basis not less frequently than once
each year, an index of
(a) all personal information banks setting forth, in respect of each bank,
(i) the identification and a description of the bank,
the registration number assigned to it by the designated Minister pursuant to paragraph 71(1)(b) and
a description of the class of individuals to whom
personal information contained in the bank relates,
(ii) the name of the government institution that has
control of the bank,
(iii) the title and address of the appropriate officer
to whom requests relating to personal information
contained in the bank should be sent,
(iv) a statement of the purposes for which personal
information in the bank was obtained or compiled
and a statement of the uses consistent with those
Current to December 10, 2025 12
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Personal Information Index
Section 11
purposes for which the information is used or disclosed,
(v) a statement of the retention and disposal standards applied to personal information in the bank,
and
(vi) an indication, where applicable, that the bank
was designated as an exempt bank by an order under section 18 and the provision of section 21 or 22
on the basis of which the order was made; and
(b) all classes of personal information under the control of a government institution that are not contained
in personal information banks, setting forth in respect
of each class
a description of the class in sufficient detail to
(i)
facilitate the right of access under this Act, and
the title and address of the appropriate officer
(ii)
for each government institution to whom requests
relating to personal information within the class
should be sent.
Statement of uses and purposes
(2) The designated Minister may set forth in the index
referred to in subsection (1) a statement of any of the uses and purposes, not included in the statements made
pursuant to subparagraph (1)(a)(iv), for which personal
information contained in any of the personal information
banks referred to in the index is used or disclosed on a
regular basis.
Index to be made available
(3) The designated Minister shall cause the index referred to in subsection (1) to be made available throughout Canada in conformity with the principle that every
person is entitled to reasonable access to the index.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “11”.
Current to December 10, 2025 13
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Access to Personal Information
Section 12
Access to Personal Information
Right of Access
Right of access
Subject to this Act, every individual who is a
12 (1)
Canadian citizen or a permanent resident within the
meaning of subsection 2(1) of the Immigration and
Refugee Protection Act has a right to and shall, on
request, be given access to
(a) any personal information about the individual
contained in a personal information bank; and
(b) any other personal information about the individual under the control of a government institution with
respect to which the individual is able to provide sufficiently specific information on the location of the information as to render it reasonably retrievable by the
government institution.
Other rights relating to personal information
(2) Every individual who is given access under paragraph
(1)(a) to personal information that has been used, is being used or is available for use for an administrative purpose is entitled to
(a) request correction of the personal information
where the individual believes there is an error or omission therein;
(b) require that a notation be attached to the information reflecting any correction requested but not made;
and
require that any person or body to whom that in-
(c)
formation has been disclosed for use for an administrative purpose within two years prior to the time a
correction is requested or a notation is required under
this subsection in respect of that information
(i) be notified of the correction or notation, and
(ii) where the disclosure is to a government institution, the institution make the correction or notation
on any copy of the information under its control.
Current to December 10, 2025 14
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Access to Personal Information
Right of Access
Sections 12-15
Extension of right of access by order
The Governor in Council may, by order, extend the
(3)
right to be given access to personal information under
subsection (1) to include individuals not referred to in
that subsection and may set such conditions as the
Governor in Council deems appropriate.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 12; 2001, c. 27, s. 269.
Requests for Access
Request for access under paragraph 12(1)(a)
13 (1) A request for access to personal information under paragraph 12(1)(a) shall be made in writing to the
government institution that has control of the personal
information bank that contains the information and shall
identify the bank.
Request for access under 12(1)(b)
A request for access to personal information under
(2)
paragraph 12(1)(b) shall be made in writing to the government institution that has control of the information
and shall provide sufficiently specific information on the
location of the information as to render it reasonably retrievable by the government institution.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “13”.
Notice where access requested
14 Where access to personal information is requested
under subsection 12(1), the head of the government institution to which the request is made shall, subject to section 15, within thirty days after the request is received,
(a) give written notice to the individual who made the
request as to whether or not access to the information
or a part thereof will be given; and
if access is to be given, give the individual who
(b)
made the request access to the information or the part
thereof.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “14”.
Extension of time limits
The head of a government institution may extend the
15
time limit set out in section 14 in respect of a request for
a maximum of thirty days if
(a)
(i) meeting the original time limit would unreasonably interfere with the operations of the government institution, or
(ii) consultations are necessary to comply with the
request that cannot reasonably be completed within
the original time limit, or
Current to December 10, 2025 15
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Access to Personal Information
Requests for Access
Sections 15-17
(b) such period of time as is reasonable, if additional
time is necessary for translation purposes or for the
purposes of converting the personal information into
an alternative format,
by giving notice of the extension and the length of the extension to the individual who made the request within
thirty days after the request is received, which notice
shall contain a statement that the individual has a right
to make a complaint to the Privacy Commissioner about
the extension.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 15; 1992, c. 21, s. 35.
Where access is refused
16 (1) Where the head of a government institution refuses to give access to any personal information requested under subsection 12(1), the head of the institution
shall state in the notice given under paragraph 14(a)
that the personal information does not exist, or
(a)
the specific provision of this Act on which the re-
(b)
fusal was based or the provision on which a refusal
could reasonably be expected to be based if the information existed,
and shall state in the notice that the individual who made
the request has a right to make a complaint to the Privacy
Commissioner about the refusal.
Existence not required to be disclosed
(2) The head of a government institution may but is not
required to indicate under subsection (1) whether personal information exists.
Deemed refusal to give access
(3) Where the head of a government institution fails to
give access to any personal information requested under
subsection 12(1) within the time limits set out in this Act,
the head of the institution shall, for the purposes of this
Act, be deemed to have refused to give access.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “16”.
Access
Form of access
17 (1) Subject to any regulations made under paragraph
77(1)(o), where an individual is to be given access to personal information requested under subsection 12(1), the
government institution shall
(a) permit the individual to examine the information
in accordance with the regulations; or
(b) provide the individual with a copy thereof.
Current to December 10, 2025 16
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Access to Personal Information
Access
Sections 17-18
Language of access
Where access to personal information is to be given
(2)
under this Act and the individual to whom access is to be
given requests that access be given in a particular one of
the official languages of Canada,
(a) access shall be given in that language, if the personal information already exists under the control of a
government institution in that language; and
(b) where the personal information does not exist in
that language, the head of the government institution
that has control of the personal information shall
cause it to be translated or interpreted for the individual if the head of the institution considers a translation or interpretation to be necessary to enable the individual to understand the information.
Access to personal information in alternative format
(3) Where access to personal information is to be given
under this Act and the individual to whom access is to be
given has a sensory disability and requests that access be
given in an alternative format, access shall be given in an
alternative format if
the personal information already exists under the
(a)
control of a government institution in an alternative
format that is acceptable to the individual; or
(b) the head of the government institution that has
control of the personal information considers the giving of access in an alternative format to be necessary
to enable the individual to exercise the individual’s
right of access under this Act and considers it reasonable to cause the personal information to be converted.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 17; 1992, c. 21, s. 36.
Exemptions
Exempt Banks
Governor in Council may designate exempt banks
18 (1) The Governor in Council may, by order, designate as exempt banks certain personal information banks
that contain files all of which consist predominantly of
personal information described in section 21 or 22.
Disclosure may be refused
(2) The head of a government institution may refuse to
disclose any personal information requested under
Current to December 10, 2025 17
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Exemptions
Exempt Banks
Sections 18-19
subsection 12(1) that is contained in a personal information bank designated as an exempt bank under subsection (1).
Contents of order
An order made under subsection (1) shall specify
(3)
(a) the section on the basis of which the order is
made; and
(b) where a personal information bank is designated
that contains files that consist predominantly of personal information described in subparagraph
22(1)(a)(ii), the law concerned.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “18”.
Responsibilities of Government
Personal information obtained in confidence
19 (1) Subject to subsection (2), the head of a government institution shall refuse to disclose any personal information requested under subsection 12(1) that was obtained in confidence from
(a) the government of a foreign state or an institution
thereof;
(b) an international organization of states or an institution thereof;
(c) the government of a province or an institution
thereof;
(d) a municipal or regional government established by
or pursuant to an Act of the legislature of a province or
an institution of such a government;
(e) the council, as defined in the Westbank First Nation Self-Government Agreement given effect by the
Westbank First Nation Self-Government Act;
(e.1) the Whitecap Dakota Government, as defined
in section 2 of the Self-Government Treaty Recognizing the Whitecap Dakota Nation / Wapaha Ska
Dakota Oyate Act;
the council of a participating First Nation as de-
(f)
fined in subsection 2(1) of the First Nations Jurisdiction over Education in British Columbia Act; or
a First Nation Government or the Anishinabek
(g)
Nation Government, as defined in section 2 of the
Anishinabek Nation Governance Agreement Act, or
Current to December 10, 2025 18
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Exemptions
Responsibilities of Government
Sections 19-22
an Anishinaabe Institution, within the meaning of section 1.1 of the Agreement, as defined in section 2 of
that Act.
Where disclosure authorized
The head of a government institution may disclose
(2)
any personal information requested under subsection
12(1) that was obtained from any government, organization or institution described in subsection (1) if the government, organization or institution from which the information was obtained
(a) consents to the disclosure; or
(b) makes the information public.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 19; 2004, c. 17, s. 19; 2006, c. 10, s. 34; 2022, c. 9, s. 5; 2023, c. 22,
s. 21.
Federal-provincial affairs
20 The head of a government institution may refuse to
disclose any personal information requested under subsection 12(1) the disclosure of which could reasonably be
expected to be injurious to the conduct by the Government of Canada of federal-provincial affairs.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “20”.
International affairs and defence
21 The head of a government institution may refuse to
disclose any personal information requested under subsection 12(1) the disclosure of which could reasonably be
expected to be injurious to the conduct of international
affairs, the defence of Canada or any state allied or associated with Canada, as defined in subsection 15(2) of the
Access to Information Act, or the efforts of Canada toward detecting, preventing or suppressing subversive or
hostile activities, as defined in subsection 15(2) of the Access to Information Act, including, without restricting
the generality of the foregoing, any such information listed in paragraphs 15(1)(a) to (i) of the Access to Information Act.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “21”.
Law enforcement and investigation
22 (1) The head of a government institution may refuse
to disclose any personal information requested under
subsection 12(1)
that was obtained or prepared by any government
(a)
institution, or part of any government institution, that
is an investigative body specified in the regulations in
the course of lawful investigations pertaining to
Current to December 10, 2025 19
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Exemptions
Responsibilities of Government
Section 22
(i) the detection, prevention or suppression of
crime,
(ii) the enforcement of any law of Canada or a
province, or
(iii) activities suspected of constituting threats to
the security of Canada within the meaning of the
Canadian Security Intelligence Service Act,
if the information came into existence less than twenty
years prior to the request;
(b) the disclosure of which could reasonably be expected to be injurious to the enforcement of any law of
Canada or a province or the conduct of lawful investigations, including, without restricting the generality of
the foregoing, any such information
relating to the existence or nature of a particular
(i)
investigation,
(ii) that would reveal the identity of a confidential
source of information, or
(iii) that was obtained or prepared in the course of
an investigation; or
(c) the disclosure of which could reasonably be expected to be injurious to the security of penal institutions.
Policing services for provinces or municipalities
(2) The head of a government institution shall refuse to
disclose any personal information requested under subsection 12(1) that was obtained or prepared by the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police while performing policing services for a province or municipality pursuant to an arrangement made under section 20 of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police Act, where the Government of Canada
has, on the request of the province or municipality,
agreed not to disclose such information.
Definition of investigation
(3) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), investigation
means an investigation that
pertains to the administration or enforcement of
(a)
an Act of Parliament;
is authorized by or pursuant to an Act of Parlia-
(b)
ment; or
Current to December 10, 2025 20
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Exemptions
Responsibilities of Government
Sections 22-22.4
(c) is within a class of investigations specified in the
regulations.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “22”; 1984, c. 21, s. 90, c. 40, s. 79(E).
Information obtained by Privacy Commissioner
22.1 (1) The Privacy Commissioner shall refuse to disclose any personal information requested under this Act
that was obtained or created by the Commissioner or on
the Commissioner’s behalf in the course of an investigation conducted by, or under the authority of, the Commissioner or that was obtained by the Commissioner in
the course of a consultation with the Information Commissioner under subsection 36(1.1) or section 36.2 of the
Access to Information Act.
Exception
(2) However, the Commissioner shall not refuse under
subsection (1) to disclose any personal information that
was created by the Commissioner or on the Commissioner’s behalf in the course of an investigation conducted by,
or under the authority of, the Commissioner once the investigation and all related proceedings, if any, are finally
concluded.
2006, c. 9, s. 183; 2019, c. 18, s. 48.
Public Sector Integrity Commissioner
The Public Sector Integrity Commissioner shall
22.2
refuse to disclose any personal information requested
under subsection 12(1) that was obtained or created by
him or her or on his or her behalf in the course of an investigation into a disclosure made under the Public Servants Disclosure Protection Act or an investigation com-
33
menced under section of that Act.
2005, c. 46, s. 58.
Public Servants Disclosure Protection Act
22.3 The head of a government institution shall refuse
to disclose personal information requested under subsection 12(1) that was created for the purpose of making a
disclosure under the Public Servants Disclosure Protection Act or in the course of an investigation into a disclosure under that Act.
2005, c. 46, s. 58.
Secretariat of National Security and Intelligence
Committee of Parliamentarians
22.4 The Secretariat of the National Security and Intelligence Committee of Parliamentarians shall refuse to disclose personal information requested under subsection
12(1) that was obtained or created by it or on its behalf in
the course of assisting the National Security and
Current to December 10, 2025 21
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Exemptions
Responsibilities of Government
Sections 22.4-25
Intelligence Committee of Parliamentarians in fulfilling
its mandate.
2017, c. 15, s. 45.
Security clearances
23 The head of a government institution may refuse to
disclose any personal information requested under subsection 12(1) that was obtained or prepared by an investigative body specified in the regulations for the purpose
of determining whether to grant security clearances
(a) required by the Government of Canada or a government institution in respect of individuals employed
by or performing services for the Government of
Canada or a government institution, individuals employed by or performing services for a person or body
performing services for the Government of Canada or
a government institution, individuals seeking to be so
employed or seeking to perform those services, or
(b) required by the government of a province or a foreign state or an institution thereof,
if disclosure of the information could reasonably be expected to reveal the identity of the individual who furnished the investigative body with the information.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “23”.
Individuals sentenced for an offence
24 The head of a government institution may refuse to
disclose any personal information requested under subsection 12(1) that was collected or obtained by the Correctional Service of Canada or the Parole Board of
Canada while the individual who made the request was
under sentence for an offence against any Act of Parliament, if the disclosure could reasonably be expected to
(a) lead to a serious disruption of the individual’s institutional, parole or statutory release program; or
(b) reveal information about the individual originally
obtained on a promise of confidentiality, express or
implied.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 24; 1994, c. 26, s. 56; 2012, c. 1, s. 160.
Safety of individuals
25 The head of a government institution may refuse to
disclose any personal information requested under subsection 12(1) the disclosure of which could reasonably be
expected to threaten the safety of individuals.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “25”.
Current to December 10, 2025 22
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Exemptions
Responsibilities of Government
Sections 25-28
