Interpretation
Definitions
3 In this Act,
administrative purpose, in relation to the use of personal information about an individual, means the use of
that information in a decision making process that directly affects that individual; (fins administratives)
alternative format, with respect to personal information, means a format that allows a person with a sensory
disability to read or listen to the personal information;
(support substitution)
de
Court means the Federal Court; (Cour)
Current to December 10, 2025 1
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Interpretation
Section 3
designated Minister means a person who is designated
as the Minister under subsection 3.1(1); (ministre
désigné)
government institution means
(a) any department or ministry of state of the Government of Canada, or any body or office, listed in the
schedule, and
(b) any parent Crown corporation, and any whollyowned subsidiary of such a corporation, within the
meaning of section 83 of the Financial Administration
Act; (institution fédérale)
head, in respect of a government institution, means
(a) in the case of a department or ministry of state,
the member of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada
who presides over the department or ministry, or
(b) in any other case, either the person designated under subsection 3.1(2) to be the head of the institution
for the purposes of this Act or, if no such person is
designated, the chief executive officer of the institution, whatever their title; (responsable d’institution
fédérale)
means information about an
personal information
identifiable individual that is recorded in any form including, without restricting the generality of the foregoing,
(a) information relating to the race, national or ethnic
origin, colour, religion, age or marital status of the individual,
(b) information relating to the education or the medical, criminal or employment history of the individual
or information relating to financial transactions in
which the individual has been involved,
(c) any identifying number, symbol or other particular assigned to the individual,
(d) the address, fingerprints or blood type of the individual,
(e) the personal opinions or views of the individual
except where they are about another individual or
about a proposal for a grant, an award or a prize to be
made to another individual by a government institution or a part of a government institution specified in
the regulations,
(f) correspondence sent to a government institution
by the individual that is implicitly or explicitly of a
Current to December 10, 2025 2
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Interpretation
Section 3
private or confidential nature, and replies to such correspondence that would reveal the contents of the
original correspondence,
(g) the views or opinions of another individual about
the individual,
(h) the views or opinions of another individual about
a proposal for a grant, an award or a prize to be made
to the individual by an institution or a part of an institution referred to in paragraph (e), but excluding the
name of the other individual where it appears with the
views or opinions of the other individual, and
(i) the name of the individual where it appears with
other personal information relating to the individual
or where the disclosure of the name itself would reveal
information about the individual,
but, for the purposes of sections 7, 8 and 26 and section
19 of the Access to Information Act, does not include
(j) information about an individual who is or was an
officer or employee of a government institution that
relates to the position or functions of the individual including,
(i) the fact that the individual is or was an officer or
employee of the government institution,
(ii) the title, business address and telephone number of the individual,
(iii) the classification, salary range and responsibilities of the position held by the individual,
(iv) the name of the individual on a document prepared by the individual in the course of employment, and
(v) the personal opinions or views of the individual
given in the course of employment,
(j.1) the fact that an individual is or was a ministerial
adviser or a member of a ministerial staff, as those
terms are defined in subsection 2(1) of the Conflict of
Interest Act, as well as the individual’s name and title,
(k) information about an individual who is or was performing services under contract for a government institution that relates to the services performed, including the terms of the contract, the name of the
individual and the opinions or views of the individual
given in the course of the performance of those services,
Current to December 10, 2025 3
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Interpretation
Sections 3-3.1
(l) information relating to any discretionary benefit of
a financial nature, including the granting of a licence
or permit, conferred on an individual, including the
name of the individual and the exact nature of the
benefit, and
(m) information about an individual who has been
dead for more than twenty years; (renseignements
personnels)
personal information bank means a collection or
grouping of personal information described in section 10;
(fichier de renseignements personnels)
Privacy Commissioner means the Commissioner appointed under section 53; (Commissaire à la protection
de la vie privée)
sensory disability means a disability that relates to
sight or hearing. (déficience sensorielle)
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 3; 1992, c. 1, s. 144(F), c. 21, s. 34; 2002, c. 8, s. 183; 2006, c. 9, s.
181; 2019, c. 18, s. 47.
For greater certainty
3.01 (1) For greater certainty, any provision of this Act
that applies to a government institution that is a parent
Crown corporation applies to any of its wholly-owned
subsidiaries within the meaning of section 83 of the Financial Administration Act.
For greater certainty
(2) For greater certainty, the Canadian Race Relations
Foundation and the Public Sector Pension Investment
Board are parent Crown corporations for the purposes of
this Act.
2006, c. 9, s. 182.
Application
3.02 Paragraph (j.1) of the definition personal information in section 3 applies only to records created on or after the day on which that paragraph comes into force.
2019, c. 18, s. 47.1.
