Investigations
Notice of intention to investigate
Before commencing an investigation of a complaint
31
under this Act, the Privacy Commissioner shall notify the
head of the government institution concerned of the intention to carry out the investigation and shall inform the
head of the institution of the substance of the complaint.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “31”.
Regulation of procedure
32 Subject to this Act, the Privacy Commissioner may
determine the procedure to be followed in the performance of any duty or function of the Commissioner under this Act.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “32”.
Investigations in private
33 (1) Every investigation of a complaint under this Act
by the Privacy Commissioner shall be conducted in private.
Right to make representation
(2) In the course of an investigation of a complaint under
this Act by the Privacy Commissioner, the person who
made the complaint and the head of the government institution concerned shall be given an opportunity to
make representations to the Commissioner, but no one is
entitled as of right to be present during, to have access to
Current to December 10, 2025 25
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Investigations
Sections 33-34
or to comment on representations made to the Commissioner by any other person.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “33”.
Powers of Privacy Commissioner in carrying out
investigations
The Privacy Commissioner has, in relation to the
34 (1)
carrying out of the investigation of any complaint under
this Act, power
to summon and enforce the appearance of persons
(a)
before the Privacy Commissioner and compel them to
give oral or written evidence on oath and to produce
such documents and things as the Commissioner
deems requisite to the full investigation and consideration of the complaint, in the same manner and to the
same extent as a superior court of record;
(b) to administer oaths;
(c) to receive and accept such evidence and other information, whether on oath or by affidavit or otherwise, as the Privacy Commissioner sees fit, whether or
not the evidence or information is or would be admissible in a court of law;
to enter any premises occupied by any government
(d)
institution on satisfying any security requirements of
the institution relating to the premises;
(e) to converse in private with any person in any
premises entered pursuant to paragraph (d) and otherwise carry out therein such inquiries within the authority of the Privacy Commissioner under this Act as
the Commissioner sees fit; and
(f) to examine or obtain copies of or extracts from
books or other records found in any premises entered
pursuant to paragraph (d) containing any matter relevant to the investigation.
Access to information
(2) Despite any other Act of Parliament, any privilege
under the law of evidence, solicitor-client privilege or the
professional secrecy of advocates and notaries and litigation privilege, and subject to subsection (2.1), the Privacy
Commissioner may, during the investigation of any complaint under this Act, examine any information recorded
in any form under the control of a government institution, other than a confidence of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada to which subsection 70(1) applies, and no
information that the Commissioner may examine under
this subsection may be withheld from the Commissioner
on any grounds.
Current to December 10, 2025 26
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Investigations
Sections 34-35
Protected information — solicitors, advocates and
notaries
(2.1) The Privacy Commissioner may examine information that is subject to solicitor-client privilege or the professional secrecy of advocates and notaries or to litigation
privilege only if the head of a government institution refuses to disclose the information under section 27.
For greater certainty
(2.2) For greater certainty, the disclosure by the head of
a government institution to the Privacy Commissioner of
information that is subject to solicitor-client privilege or
the professional secrecy of advocates and notaries or to
litigation privilege does not constitute a waiver of those
privileges or that professional secrecy.
Evidence in other proceedings
(3) Except in a prosecution of a person for an offence under section 131 of the Criminal Code (perjury) in respect
of a statement made under this Act, in a prosecution for
an offence under this Act or in a review before the Court
under this Act or an appeal therefrom, evidence given by
a person in proceedings under this Act and evidence of
the existence of the proceedings is inadmissible against
that person in a court or in any other proceedings.
Witness fees
(4) Any person summoned to appear before the Privacy
Commissioner pursuant to this section is entitled in the
discretion of the Commissioner to receive the like fees
and allowances for so doing as if summoned to attend before the Federal Court.
Return of documents, etc.
(5) Any document or thing produced pursuant to this
section by any person or government institution shall be
returned by the Privacy Commissioner within ten days
after a request is made to the Commissioner by that person or government institution, but nothing in this subsection precludes the Commissioner from again requiring
its production in accordance with this section.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 34; R.S., 1985, c. 27 (1st Supp.), s. 187; 2019, c. 18, s. 50.
Findings and recommendations of Privacy
Commissioner
If, on investigating a complaint under this Act in
35 (1)
respect of personal information, the Privacy Commissioner finds that the complaint is well-founded, the Commissioner shall provide the head of the government institution that has control of the personal information with a
report containing
Current to December 10, 2025 27
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Investigations
Section 35
(a) the findings of the investigation and any recommendations that the Commissioner considers appropriate; and
(b) where appropriate, a request that, within a time
specified therein, notice be given to the Commissioner
of any action taken or proposed to be taken to implement the recommendations contained in the report or
reasons why no such action has been or is proposed to
be taken.
Report to complainant
(2) The Privacy Commissioner shall, after investigating a
complaint under this Act, report to the complainant the
results of the investigation, but where a notice has been
requested under paragraph (1)(b) no report shall be
made under this subsection until the expiration of the
time within which the notice is to be given to the Commissioner.
Matter to be included in report to complainant
Where a notice has been requested under paragraph
(3)
(1)(b) but no such notice is received by the Commissioner within the time specified therefor or the action described in the notice is, in the opinion of the Commissioner, inadequate or inappropriate or will not be taken
in a reasonable time, the Commissioner shall so advise
the complainant in his report under subsection (2) and
may include in the report such comments on the matter
as he thinks fit.
Access to be given
(4) Where, pursuant to a request under paragraph (1)(b),
the head of a government institution gives notice to the
Privacy Commissioner that access to personal information will be given to a complainant, the head of the institution shall give the complainant access to the information forthwith on giving the notice.
Right of review
(5) Where, following the investigation of a complaint relating to a refusal to give access to personal information
under this Act, access is not given to the complainant, the
Privacy Commissioner shall inform the complainant that
the complainant has the right to apply to the Court for a
review of the matter investigated.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “35”.
Current to December 10, 2025 28
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
