Complaints
Section 29
Complaints
Receipt and investigation of complaints
29 (1) Subject to this Act, the Privacy Commissioner
shall receive and investigate complaints
(a) from individuals who allege that personal information about themselves held by a government institution has been used or disclosed otherwise than in accordance with section 7 or 8;
(b) from individuals who have been refused access to
personal information requested under subsection
12(1);
(c) from individuals who allege that they are not being
accorded the rights to which they are entitled under
subsection 12(2) or that corrections of personal information requested under paragraph 12(2)(a) are being
refused without justification;
from individuals who have requested access to
(d)
personal information in respect of which a time limit
has been extended pursuant to section 15 where they
consider the extension unreasonable;
(e) from individuals who have not been given access
to personal information in the official language requested by the individuals under subsection 17(2);
(e.1) from individuals who have not been given access
to personal information in an alternative format pursuant to a request made under subsection 17(3);
(f) from individuals who have been required to pay a
fee that they consider inappropriate;
(g) in respect of the index referred to in subsection
11(1); or
(h) in respect of any other matter relating to
(i) the collection, retention or disposal of personal
information by a government institution,
(ii) the use or disclosure of personal information
under the control of a government institution, or
(iii) requesting or obtaining access under subsection 12(1) to personal information.
Current to December 10, 2025 24
Last amended on June 2, 2025

Privacy
Complaints
Sections 29-33
Complaints submitted on behalf of complainants
Nothing in this Act precludes the Privacy Commis-
(2)
sioner from receiving and investigating complaints of a
nature described in subsection (1) that are submitted by
a person authorized by the complainant to act on behalf
of the complainant, and a reference to a complainant in
any other section includes a reference to a person so authorized.
Privacy Commissioner may initiate complaint
(3) Where the Privacy Commissioner is satisfied that
there are reasonable grounds to investigate a matter under this Act, the Commissioner may initiate a complaint
in respect thereof.
R.S., 1985, c. P-21, s. 29; 1992, c. 21, s. 37.
Written complaint
30 A complaint under this Act shall be made to the Privacy Commissioner in writing unless the Commissioner
authorizes otherwise.
1980-81-82-83, c. 111, Sch. II “30”.
